# Exchange Rate Service Application

## Overview

This ASP.NET-based application provides a set of API endpoints for managing exchange rates. It provides functionalities to retrieve exchange rates, create new exchange rates, update existing rates, and delete rates. All these functionalities are provided through individual RESTful APIs which are explained in the corresponding sections.

## API Endpoints

### `GET /rates/{from}/{to}`

This endpoint provides the functionality to retrieve exchange rates between the `from` and `to` currencies. The real-time exchange rate, bid price, and ask price are returned from the service.

Example Usage:
#### bash GET /rates/USD/EUR

### `POST /rates`

This endpoint is used to create a new exchange rate. The `from` and `to` currencies along with the exchange rate, bid, and ask prices should be provided in the form of a JSON body payload. It checks for the existence of the exchange rate before creating a new one.

Example Usage:

#### bash POST /rates
```json
{
    "from": "USD",
    "to": "EUR",
    "rate": 0.85,
    "bid": 0.84,
    "ask": 0.86
}
```

### `PUT /rates`

This endpoint is used to update an existing exchange rate. The `from` and `to` currencies along with the exchange rate, bid, and ask prices should be provided in the form of a JSON body payload. It checks for the existence of the exchange rate before performing the update operation.

Example Usage:

#### bash PUT /rates
```json
{
    "from": "USD",
    "to": "EUR",
    "rate": 0.86,
    "bid": 0.85,
    "ask": 0.87
}
```

### `DELETE /rates/{from}/{to}`

This endpoint is used to delete an existing exchange rate between the `from` and `to` currencies. It checks for the existence of the exchange rate before carrying out the deletion operation.

Example Usage:
#### bash DELETE /rates/USD/EUR

***Note:*** _Please replace "USD" and "EUR" with your desired 'from' and 'to' currency codes._

## Future Enhancements

Future versions of this application will support more functionalities such as exchange rate history tracking, alerts for specific rate thresholds, and more analytics features.

# Getting Started with .NET 8 and Swagger on Windows

This guide will help you to set up and run your .NET 8 application with Swagger UI on Windows.

## Prerequisites
- [Install .NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0) if not done already.
- For text editor, you could use [JetBrains Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider/), [Visual Studio 2023](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/) or [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

## Steps For Running the Application

1. Clone your repository or Extract your .NET 8 project to your local machine.

2. Open Command Prompt, navigate to your project directory that contains the `.csproj` file.
`cd path_to_your_project_folder`
3. To build the project use the following .NET CLI command:
`dotnet build`
4. Apply the migration to the database to create the schema:
`dotnet ef database update`
5. Run your .NET 8 application using below command:
`dotnet run`
Your application will start, and you should be able to see the localhost URL where your app is running, typically it will be http://localhost:5000 or http://localhost:5001.

6. Open your web browser and navigate to Swagger UI using the following url:
`http://localhost:5000/swagger/index.html` or `http://localhost:5001/swagger/index.html`
   Substitute `5000` or `5001` with the port your application is running on.

## Configuration

The following environment variables is needed.

| Name                                 | Description                                                      | Example                                                                                                                    |
|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| AlphaVantageSettings:ApiKey          | APIKey generated by https://www.alphavantage.co/support/#api-key | NRHVJ9DPWPMKM6UE                                                                                                           |
| AlphaVantageSettings:BaseUrl         | Current Alpha Vantage API link                                   | https://www.alphavantage.co/                                                                                               |       
| ConnectionStrings__DefaultConnection | Connection string to used SQL Database                           | Server=local\MSSQLSERVER01;Database=ExchangeRates;User Id=admin; Password=111111;TrustServerCertificate=True;Encrypt=False |      

## Using Swagger UI for Testing

Swagger UI provides a web-based interface to test the API endpoints.

1. To test an API endpoint, click on it, you will see the Details of the API, its parameters, and a `"Try it out"` button.

2. Click `"Try it out"`, enter the required parameters if any.

3. Click `"Execute"` button to test the API, you'll see the response, the details of the Request URL, as well as the server response like status code and server response body.

## Running NUnit Tests

NUnit is a popular unit-testing framework for .NET. Here are steps to run NUnit tests:

1. Install NUnit Test Adapter:

   If you are using Visual Studio you can install it via `Extensions > Manage NuGet Packages > NUnit3TestAdapter`.

   If you are using .NET CLI run this command:

    ```bash
    dotnet add package NUnit3TestAdapter
    ```

2. Open Command Prompt, navigate to your test project directory that contains the `.csproj` file:

    ```bash
    cd path_to_your_test_project_folder
    ```

3. Build your tests project:

    ```bash
    dotnet build
    ```

4. Run the tests with the following command:

    ```bash
    dotnet test
    ```

   This will execute all the test cases present in your test project.

5. If you want to run specific tests, use the filter option:

    ```bash
    dotnet test --filter FullyQualifiedName~Namespace.ClassName.MethodName
    ```

   Replace `Namespace.ClassName.MethodName` with the full name of your test.

The results are displayed in the terminal. The results include the status of each test (passed or failed) and overall statistics.

Remember to replace `path_to_your_test_project_folder` and `Namespace.ClassName.MethodName` according to your project's structure. Enjoy testing!

## Summary

That's it! Now, you can efficiently use .NET 8 on Windows and Swagger to build and test your API applications. Swagger makes it easy to test the functionality of your APIs and view clear details about the status and responses of your API requests. Happy coding!
